♪ [music] ♪
So far we've been making all of our
components with this "class Header extends
React.Component", and that makes a true
React component with the whole - we're
going to learn about life cycle and a
whole bunch of stuff. And I'm actually
just going to show you one of our finished
app components where we have - rather than
just having a render() method we also have
things like loadSampleFishes() and
remove a fish and update a fish and add a fish
and remove from order and add to order and
we also have these life cycle hooks that
component will update and will unmount and
those - we're going to learn all about all
of these things. And this is a pretty
loaded component. There's a lot going on
here, but however sometimes our
component's going to be really simple in
that they only do one thing and that is
render out some HTML to the DOM. So when
that is the case, you don't actually need
a full React component, you just need
something called a stateless functional
component. And again, what that means is
that if you don't need other methods other
than render(), it doesn't make sense to use
an entire React component.
We can simply just use what's called a
stateless functional component,
and that will be used to render out our
JSX. So this Header right here - this is
never going to change. There's no
functionality tied to our Header.
There's no special stuff. All it does is
it creates us a 'header' with an 'h1' and an
'h3', and we use "this.props.tagline"
inside of it. So what I want to show you
is how do we actually convert this over
to a stateless functional component?
So what I'm going to do first is delete
this closing curly bracket here and delete
the whole 'class Header extends React.Component',
and we also want to delete the
entire render() here. Good. And then we're
just left with what we return.
Now here what we do is we just create a
variable called "Header",
and we're going to stick that in an arrow
function here and open that on up.
So this could also be written as "function
Header()", like that, or whatever you prefer.
Or "var Header = function" - whatever
you prefer. It seems to be... this is the
best practice here, 'const Header =',
and then we are going to get passed 'props'.
So any props that are being used for this
stateless functional component will be
passed in as "props", so I can just take all
of this here, paste that in,
and then the only thing that we need to do
is 'this' doesn't equal anything now.
It's not bound to anything. It's not part
of react, so we just take 'this' out,
and the props are passed in directly. So,
that's a stateless functional component.
If I save it, we should be able to see
that it still works fine.
By the way, you'll also see this little
ESLint warning here: "'StorePicker' is defined
but never used," so there's this warning in
ESLint where if you have a variable and
you never use it, maybe like, you should
delete it, but we are going to be using it
in the next video when we learn about
React Router.